Add Kind Example (#7155)
istio/istio.io: content/en/docs/examples/local-testing-with-kind/index.md

---
title: Testing Istio Locally With Kubernetes In Docker
description: Example of deploying Istio locally using Kubernetes In Docker for testing and evaluation.
weight: 10
keywords:
- kubernetes
- kind
- metallb
- cert-manager
- ingress
---

This example uses Kubernetes In Docker ([KIND][kind]) to deploy Istio locally. The cluster produced is intended to be used for further testing, evaluation and experimentation with Istio.

> ## Before You Begin

Reviewer: sentence case for headings throughout
```suggestion
## Before you begin
```

> Sections in this example provide a walk through of deploying a `kind` cluster similar to how the [Istio Kind Documentation](/docs/setup/platform-setup/kind) recommends, but with several important follow up steps to deploy certificate management and Istio gateways with TLS. Familiarize yourself with that documentation and `kind` itself to make sure you have a general working knowledge of `kind` before proceeding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sections in this example provide a walk through of deploying a `kind` cluster similar to how the [Istio Kind Documentation](/docs/setup/platform-setup/kind) recommends, but with several important follow up steps to deploy certificate management and Istio gateways with TLS. Before proceeding, familiarize yourself with that documentation to make sure you have a general working knowledge of `kind`.
```

## Deploying Kubernetes

Create a default Kubernetes cluster using `kind` with a single node:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kind create cluster --name istio-testing
{{< /text >}}

{{< tip >}}
If you're interested in building a multi-node cluster, or otherwise further customizing the cluster setup (e.g. different Kubernetes versions, more worker nodes) then be sure to check the [Kind Cluster Configuration Documentation](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start#configuring-your-kind-cluster) which will help you explore the available options.
{{< /tip >}}

Once the cluster has completed deployment switch your [kubectl][kubectl] context to start using it:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl cluster-info --context kind-istio-testing
{{< /text >}}

And then test access to the cluster by retrieving resources to make sure everything is working (e.g. `kubectl get all -A`).

> ## Enabling External Load Balancers

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Enabling external load balancers
```

> By default Istio will create a [Load Balancer Service][servicelb] which will be resolved with an external address. For the purposes of this example use [MetalLB][metallb] to resolve these to an address available on the docker network from the host machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, Istio creates a [Load Balancer Service][servicelb] which resolves with an external address. For the purposes of this example, use [MetalLB][metallb] to resolve the `LoadBalancer` type `Service` resources to an address available on the Docker network from the host machine.
```

{{< tip >}}

> For this example assume that the default docker network is used with an IP range of `172.17.255.1-172.17.255.250` (if you ran `kind` with no specific configuration, this should be the default). If however you are using an alternative network configuration, you'll need to make the appropriate updates to the `addresses` field in the below MetalLB configuration before deploying.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this example assume that the default Docker network is used with an IP range of `172.17.255.1-172.17.255.250` (if you ran `kind` with no specific configuration, this should be the default). If however you are using an alternative network configuration, you'll need to make the appropriate updates to the `addresses` field in the below MetalLB configuration before deploying.
```

{{< /tip >}}

First pick the latest release and deploy the MetalLB components:

{{< text bash >}}
$ export LATEST_METALLB_RELEASE="$(curl -s https://api.github.com/repos/metallb/metallb/releases/latest | jq -r '.tag_name')"
$ kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/metallb/metallb/${LATEST_METALLB_RELEASE}/manifests/namespace.yaml
$ kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/metallb/metallb/${LATEST_METALLB_RELEASE}/manifests/metallb.yaml
{{< /text >}}

> We need to generate a secret for MetalLB:

Reviewer: avoid us/we/etc
```suggestion
Next, generate a secret for MetalLB:
```

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl create secret generic -n metallb-system memberlist --from-literal=secretkey="$(openssl rand -base64 128)"
{{< /text >}}

And add a configuration file for MetalLB so it knows what protocol to use and what address range is available to it:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: config
  namespace: metallb-system
data:
  config: |
    address-pools:
    - name: default
      protocol: layer2
      addresses:
      - 172.17.255.1-172.17.255.250
EOF
{{< /text >}}

Now the external IP addresses for `LoadBalancer` type `Service` resources can be provisioned.

## Certificates

> A default deployment of Istio will only serve HTTP traffic, which can be very limiting for testing. For this example use [Cert Manager][certmanager] to provide a `ClusterIssuer` which can sign certificates for us for testing HTTPS ingress through our gateways.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A default deployment of Istio serves only HTTP traffic, which can be very limiting for testing. For this example use [Cert Manager][certmanager] to provide a `ClusterIssuer`, which can sign certificates for testing HTTPS ingress through gateways.
```

{{< tip >}}
This example uses a self-signed certificate for simplicity (all testing is done over the local network). If you're adapting the examples here to a different kind of environment keep in mind that you'll need to change what kind of issuer you use. You may want to review other documentation such as the [Ingress With Cert Manager Task](/docs/ops/integrations/certmanager/) for your own adaptations.
{{< /tip >}}

First deploy the Cert Manager components themselves:

{{< text bash >}}
$ export LATEST_CERTMANAGER_RELEASE="$(curl -s https://api.github.com/repos/jetstack/cert-manager/releases/latest | jq -r '.tag_name')"
$ kubectl apply -f https://github.com/jetstack/cert-manager/releases/download/${LATEST_CERTMANAGER_RELEASE}/cert-manager.yaml
{{< /text >}}

{{< tip >}}

> Make sure to wait for all `Deployments` in the `cert-manager` namespace to be `READY`, if you try to create a `ClusterIssuer` and the webhook manager is not `READY`, you may receive 500 errors from the API until it's resolved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure to wait for all `Deployments` in the `cert-manager` namespace to be `READY`. If you try to create a `ClusterIssuer` and the webhook manager is not `READY`, you may receive 500 errors from the API until it's resolved.
```

{{< /tip >}}

> Now let's provide a `ClusterIssuer` for our certs:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, provide a `ClusterIssuer` for the certs:
```

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1alpha2
kind: ClusterIssuer
metadata:
  name: selfsigned-issuer
spec:
  selfSigned: {}
EOF
{{< /text >}}

All set! Now certificates for `Gateway` resources can be more easily managed.

## Deploying Istio

> All the setup is done, it's time to deploy Istio.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After all the setup is done, it's time to deploy Istio.
```

{{< tip >}}
Make sure you have `istoctl` [installed](/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/istioctl/#before-you-begin)!
{{< /tip >}}

> We'll start by using `istioctl` to deploy the base Istio installation with [SDS](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/secure-ingress/), [Ingress with HTTPS](/docs/ops/integrations/certmanager/) enabled:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Start by using `istioctl` to deploy the base Istio installation with [SDS](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/secure-ingress/) and [Ingress with HTTPS](/docs/ops/integrations/certmanager/) enabled:
```

{{< text bash >}}
$ istioctl manifest apply \
  --set values.gateways.istio-ingressgateway.sds.enabled=true \
  --set values.global.k8sIngress.enabled=true \
  --set values.global.k8sIngress.enableHttps=true \
  --set values.global.k8sIngress.gatewayName=ingressgateway
{{< /text >}}

Since HTTPS is enabled for the ingress `Gateway` make sure to create a `Certificate` for it:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1alpha2
kind: Certificate
metadata:
  name: ingress-cert
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  secretName: ingress-cert
  issuerRef:
    name: selfsigned-issuer
    kind: ClusterIssuer
  commonName: examples.istio.io
  dnsNames:
  - '*.istio.io'
EOF
{{< /text >}}

And patch the ingress `Gateway` to configure it for the `Certificate`:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl -n istio-system patch gateway istio-autogenerated-k8s-ingress --type=json \
  -p='[{"op": "replace", "path": "/spec/servers/1/tls", "value": {"credentialName": "ingress-cert", "mode": "SIMPLE", "privateKey": "sds", "serverCertificate": "sds"}}]'
{{< /text >}}

> If all went well, you could be able to reach the default `Gateway` over both HTTP and HTTPS (you'll receive a 404):

Reviewer: is this saying that at this point you SHOULD be able to ping the gateway, or you should NOT be able to ping the gateway?

Author: Hopefully this clarifies:
```suggestion
At this point you should be able to reach the default `Gateway` over both HTTP and HTTPS (but note, that you'll receive a 404 from the `Gateway` at this point, not a 200):
```
Let me know what you think?

{{< text bash >}}
$ export ISTIO_GATEWAY_IP=$(kubectl -n istio-system get svc istio-ingressgateway --template='{{range .status.loadBalancer.ingress}}{{.ip}}{{end}}')
$ curl -v http://${ISTIO_GATEWAY_IP}
$ curl -k -v https://${ISTIO_GATEWAY_IP}
{{< /text >}}

Now testing can start!

> ## Testing Traffic Management

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Testing traffic management
```

In this section there are a couple of small examples which can assist in testing and prove things are working with basic traffic management.

> ### HTTP Test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### HTTP test
```

> For this test a simple [NGinx][nginx] web server will be deployed to test HTTP traffic.
> 
> You can easily deploy an NGinx pod and service with:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this test a simple [NGINX][nginx] web server is deployed to test HTTP traffic.

You can easily deploy an NGINX pod and service with:
```

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl run nginx --image nginx --wait=true
$ kubectl expose pod nginx --port 80 --target-port 80
{{< /text >}}

> We'll create a `VirtualService` (that uses the default provided gateway) to access the server from outside the cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a `VirtualService` (that uses the default provided gateway) to access the server from outside the cluster:
```

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: VirtualService
metadata:
  name: nginx
spec:
  gateways:
  - istio-system/ingressgateway
  hosts:
  - 'http.examples.istio.io'
  http:
  - route:
    - destination:
        host: nginx
        port:
          number: 80
EOF
{{< /text >}}

> That's it! It should be able to access the web server now with `curl`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That's it! You should be able to access the web server now with `curl`:
```

{{< text bash >}}
$ export ISTIO_GATEWAY_IP=$(kubectl -n istio-system get svc istio-ingressgateway --template='{{range .status.loadBalancer.ingress}}{{.ip}}{{end}}')
$ curl --fail -H 'Host: http.examples.istio.io' http://${ISTIO_GATEWAY_IP}
{{< /text >}}

{{< tip >}}

> It can take a few moments before the route will work, make sure to retry a few times over the coming seconds if you can't reach the NGinx server immediately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can take a few moments before the route works. Make sure to retry a few times if you can't reach the NGINX server immediately.
```

{{< /tip >}}

When things are working properly the response output will include: `<h1>Welcome to nginx!</h1>`

> ### HTTPS Test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### HTTPS test
```

This example is a variant of the HTTP test with TLS termination at the ingress level.

> Create and expose a new [NGinx][nginx] web server to test:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create and expose a new [NGINX][nginx] web server to test:
```

kind: Gateway
metadata:
  name: nginx
  namespace: nginx
spec:
  selector:
    istio: ingressgateway
  servers:
  - port:
      number: 443
      name: https
      protocol: HTTPS
    tls:
      credentialName: ingress-cert
      mode: SIMPLE
      privateKey: sds
      serverCertificate: sds
    hosts:
    - "https.example.istio.io"
EOF
{{< /text >}}

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: VirtualService
metadata:
  name: nginx
  namespace: nginx
spec:
  hosts:
  - "https.example.istio.io"
  gateways:
  - nginx
  http:
  - route:
    - destination:
        port:
          number: 80
        host: nginx
EOF
{{< /text >}}

Now it should be possible to access your web server over the external IP using the `https.example.istio.io` domain:

{{< text bash >}}
$ export ISTIO_GATEWAY_IP=$(kubectl -n istio-system get svc istio-ingressgateway --template='{{range .status.loadBalancer.ingress}}{{.ip}}{{end}}')
$ curl -k --resolve https.example.istio.io:443:${ISTIO_GATEWAY_IP} https://https.example.istio.io
{{< /text >}}

If everything worked properly you should see `<h1>Welcome to nginx!</h1>` in the output.

> ### TLS Passthrough Test

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### TLS passthrough test
```

And then a `VirtualService` to attach to the Kubernetes API via the internal `Service`:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: VirtualService
metadata:
  name: kubernetes
spec:
  gateways:
  - kubernetes
  hosts:
  - examples.istio.io
  tls:
  - match:
    - port: 443
      sni_hosts:
      - examples.istio.io
    route:
    - destination:
        host: kubernetes
        port:
          number: 443
EOF
{{< /text >}}

Then you should be able to access the Kubernetes API through the `Gateway`:

{{< text bash >}}
$ export ISTIO_GATEWAY_IP=$(kubectl -n istio-system get svc istio-ingressgateway --template='{{range .status.loadBalancer.ingress}}{{.ip}}{{end}}')
$ curl -H 'Content-Type: application/json' -w '\n' -k --resolve examples.istio.io:443:${ISTIO_GATEWAY_IP} https://examples.istio.io/version
{{< /text >}}

If all went well the result of the above `curl` command should be the `/version` output from the Kubernetes API, similar to:

{{< text json >}}
{
  "major": "1",
  "minor": "17",
  "gitVersion": "v1.17.2",
  "gitTreeState": "clean",
  "goVersion": "go1.13.5",
  "compiler": "gc",
  "platform": "linux/amd64"
}
{{< /text >}}

> ## What's Next

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## What's next
```

---
title: Testing Istio Locally With Kubernetes In Docker

> description: Example of deploying Istio locally using Kubernetes In Docker for testing and evaluation

Reviewer 2: Missing period is preventing the preview (https://app.netlify.com/sites/preliminary-istio/deploys/5ea6e54d7b751300067079ce) from generating.
```suggestion
description: Example of deploying Istio locally using Kubernetes In Docker for testing and evaluation.
```

Author: :+1:

weight: 10
keywords:
- kubernetes
- kind
- metallb
- cert-manager
- ingress
---

> 
> ## About

Reviewer 2: No need for a heading for the overview.
```suggestion
```

This example uses Kubernetes In Docker ([KIND][kind]) to deploy Istio locally. The cluster produced is intended to be used for further testing, evaluation and experimentation with Istio.

## Deploying Kubernetes

> {{< tip >}}

Reviewer 2: One more suggestion would be to not make this a tip, but rather move this paragraph to a `Before you begin` section and change the first sentence to: The following instructions deploy a `kind` cluster similar to ...

Author: Sounds good to me, changed :+1:

Make sure that you have [Docker][docker] and [Kind][kindquickstart] installed and that you are able to create and use kind clusters and connect to them with [Kubectl][kubectl].

## Deploying Kubernetes

> For this example we'll be creating a default Kubernetes cluster using [Kind][kind] with a single node:

Reviewer 2: Istio documentation avoids "we" terminology. Please change "we" to "you" or reword, here and throughout the doc.
```suggestion
Create a default Kubernetes cluster using [Kind][kind] with a single node:
```

Author: Updated all the spots, thank you :)

Author: :+1: updated

> ```shell
> kind create cluster --name istio-testing
> ```

Reviewer 2: This (and all other code blocks) needs to be changed to use `{{< text }}>`. See documentation [here](https://istio.io/about/contribute/code-blocks/).
```suggestion
{{< text bash >}}
$ kind create cluster --name istio-testing
{{< /text >}}
```

Author: Updated all these spots, thank you :)

{{< /tip >}}

Once the cluster has completed deployment switch your [kubectl][kubectl] context to start using it:

{{< text bash >}}
kubectl cluster-info --context kind-istio-testing
{{< /text >}}

And then test access to the cluster by retrieving resources to make sure everyting is working (e.g. `kubectl get all -A`).

## Enabling External LoadBalancers

By default Istio will create a [LoadBalancer Service][servicelb] which will be resolved with an external address. For the purposes of this example we'll use [MetalLB][metallb] to resolve these to an address available on the docker network from the host machine.

{{< tip >}}
For this example we assume that the default docker network is used with an IP range of `172.17.255.1-172.17.255.250` (if you ran `kind` with no specifical configuration, this should be the default). If however you are using an alternative network configuration, you'll need to make the appropriate updates to the `addresses` field in the below MetalLB configuration before deploying.
{{< /tip >}}

First we'll pick the latest release and deploy the MetalLB components:

> {{< text bash >}}
> export LATEST_METALLB_RELEASE="$(curl -s https://api.github.com/repos/metallb/metallb/releases/latest | jq -r '.tag_name')"
> kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/metallb/metallb/${LATEST_METALLB_RELEASE}/manifests/namespace.yaml
> kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/metallb/metallb/${LATEST_METALLB_RELEASE}/manifests/metallb.yaml
> {{< /text >}}

Reviewer 2: Every line this is a command (vs. output or extended multi-line command) must start with `$ `.
```suggestion
{{< text bash >}}
$ export LATEST_METALLB_RELEASE="$(curl -s https://api.github.com/repos/metallb/metallb/releases/latest | jq -r '.tag_name')"
$ kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/metallb/metallb/${LATEST_METALLB_RELEASE}/manifests/namespace.yaml
$ kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/metallb/metallb/${LATEST_METALLB_RELEASE}/manifests/metallb.yaml
{{< /text >}}
```

Author: :+1:

---
title: Testing Istio Locally With Kubernetes In Docker
description: Example of deploying Istio locally using Kubernetes In Docker for testing and evaluation.
weight: 10
keywords:
- kubernetes
- kind
- metallb
- cert-manager
- ingress
---

## About

This example uses Kubernetes In Docker ([KIND][kind]) to deploy Istio locally. The cluster produced is intended to be used for further testing, evaluation and experimentation with Istio.

## Deploying Kubernetes

{{< tip >}}

> This section deploys a [Kind][kind] cluster similar to how the [Istio Kind Documentation](/docs/setup/platform-setup/kind) recommends, but with several important follow up steps to deploy certificate management and Istio gateways with TLS. Familiarize yourself with that documentation and [Kind][kind] itself to make sure you have a general working knowledge of `kind` before proceeding.

Reviewer 2: If you check the [preview](https://deploy-preview-7155--preliminary-istio.netlify.app/docs/examples/local-testing-with-kind/) you'll see that some of the links (like this `[Kind][kind]` one) are not displaying correctly. I think the problem may be that the square bracket syntax doesn't work inside tips (although it does seem to work fine outside of them). So anyway, I think you'll need to use the expanded form `[title](target link)` in the places where it doesn't work.

That said, for this particular case, I don't think you should be making every use of kind a clickable link. Just the first occurrence would be enough. After that, just enclose it in backticks: `kind`.

Author: Sounds good, I made those changes as suggested :+1:

{{< tip >}}
For this example assume that the default Docker network is used with an IP range of `172.17.255.1-172.17.255.250` (if you ran `kind` with no specific configuration, this should be the default). If however you are using an alternative network configuration, you'll need to make the appropriate updates to the `addresses` field in the below MetalLB configuration before deploying.
{{< /tip >}}

First pick the latest release and deploy the MetalLB components:

{{< text bash >}}
$ export LATEST_METALLB_RELEASE="$(curl -s https://api.github.com/repos/metallb/metallb/releases/latest | jq -r '.tag_name')"
$ kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/metallb/metallb/${LATEST_METALLB_RELEASE}/manifests/namespace.yaml
$ kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/metallb/metallb/${LATEST_METALLB_RELEASE}/manifests/metallb.yaml
{{< /text >}}

Next, generate a secret for MetalLB:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl create secret generic -n metallb-system memberlist --from-literal=secretkey="$(openssl rand -base64 128)"
{{< /text >}}

> And add a configuration file for MetalLB so it knows what protocol to use and what address range is available to it:

Reviewer 2: Small grammatical tweak to retrigger netlify which failed because it's been flaky lately.
```suggestion
Then, add a configuration file for MetalLB so it knows what protocol to use and what address range is available to it:
```

{{< /tip >}}

First deploy the Cert Manager components themselves:

{{< text bash >}}
$ export LATEST_CERTMANAGER_RELEASE="$(curl -s https://api.github.com/repos/jetstack/cert-manager/releases/latest | jq -r '.tag_name')"
$ kubectl apply -f https://github.com/jetstack/cert-manager/releases/download/${LATEST_CERTMANAGER_RELEASE}/cert-manager.yaml
{{< /text >}}

{{< tip >}}
Make sure to wait for all `Deployments` in the `cert-manager` namespace to be `READY`, if you try to create a `ClusterIssuer` and the webhook manager is not `READY`, you may receive 500 errors from the API until it's resolved.
{{< /tip >}}

Now let's provide a `ClusterIssuer` for our certs:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: cert-manager.io/v1alpha2
kind: ClusterIssuer
metadata:
  name: selfsigned-issuer
spec:
  selfSigned: {}
EOF
{{< /text >}}

All set! Now certificates for `Gateway` resources can be more easily managed.

## Deploying Istio

All the setup is done, it's time to deploy Istio.

{{< tip >}}

> Make sure you have `istoctl` [installed](/docs/setup/)!

Reviewer 2: I think this is a better place to reference.
```suggestion
Make sure you have `istoctl` [installed](/docs/ops/diagnostic-tools/istioctl/#before-you-begin)!
```

{{< /tip >}}

Start by using `istioctl` to deploy the base Istio installation with [SDS](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/secure-ingress/) and [Ingress with HTTPS](/docs/ops/integrations/certmanager/) enabled:

{{< text bash >}}

> $ istioctl manifest apply \

Reviewer 2: I just realized that this is outdated and fails to work on latest 1.6 builds. For one, sds is now enabled by default and not sure about the k8sIngress stuff (cc @howardjohn).

This would need to work with https://github.com/istio/istio/releases/tag/1.6.0-beta.0, before we can merge to master.

I think you might need to tweak some of it.

---
title: Testing Istio Locally With Kubernetes In Docker
description: Example of deploying Istio locally using Kubernetes In Docker for testing and evaluation.
weight: 10
keywords:
- kubernetes
- kind
- metallb
- cert-manager
- ingress

> test: true

Reviewer 2: Remove this line, unless you are planning to write a test program for the page: https://github.com/istio/istio.io/tree/master/tests#testing-istioio-content.
If you remove this field, you can also remove the generated snip.sh file.

Reviewer 2: Before you delete snip.sh, you might want to take a look at the reported lint errors, to see if they are legitimate bad things in your code blocks or not.
```
If there are any lint errors in the generated snip.sh file, it means that a command in the
index.md file is not following bash best practices. Because we are extracting the commands
from the markdown file into a script file, we get the added benefit of lint checking of the
commands that appear in the docs.
```

Reviewer 2: Looking at the lint error in the snip.sh, the problem is that you are using `<< EOF` in some of the commands. The doc framework doesn't recognize this as a multi-line bash command, it only handles `<<EOF` (no whitespace). The generated snip.sh ends up being bad, but more importantly, the copy button on the generated web page will also not work properly. Please change them to `<<EOF`.

Author: Changed, thank you :+1:

---
title: Testing Istio Locally With Kubernetes In Docker
description: Example of deploying Istio locally using Kubernetes In Docker for testing and evaluation.
weight: 10
keywords:
- kubernetes
- kind
- metallb
- cert-manager
- ingress
test: true
---

## About

> This example uses Kubernetes In Docker ([KIND][kind]) to deploy Istio locally. The cluster produced is intended to be a supplement for further testing, evaluation and experimentation with Istio.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This example uses Kubernetes In Docker ([KIND][kind]) to deploy Istio locally. The cluster produced is intended to be used for further testing, evaluation and experimentation with Istio.
```

## Before you begin

Make sure that you have [Docker][docker] and [Kind][kindquickstart] installed and that you are able to create and use kind clusters and connect to them with [Kubectl][kubectl].

> ## Deploying Kubernetes

Reviewer 2: This and the previous section seems to duplicate material in the platform setup instructions for `kind`: https://preliminary.istio.io/docs/setup/platform-setup/kind/. Should it reuse, or at least explain how it relates to, those instructions?

Author: I've tried adding a reference below in a "tip" section that points to the document and recommends familiarizing yourself with it before proceeding. Let me know what you think.

{{< /tip >}}

First pick the latest release and deploy the MetalLB components:

{{< text bash >}}
$ export LATEST_METALLB_RELEASE="$(curl -s https://api.github.com/repos/metallb/metallb/releases/latest | jq -r '.tag_name')"
$ kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/metallb/metallb/${LATEST_METALLB_RELEASE}/manifests/namespace.yaml
$ kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/metallb/metallb/${LATEST_METALLB_RELEASE}/manifests/metallb.yaml
{{< /text >}}

We need to generate a secret for MetalLB:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl create secret generic -n metallb-system memberlist --from-literal=secretkey="$(openssl rand -base64 128)"
{{< /text >}}

And add a configuration file for MetalLB so it knows what protocol to use and what address range is available to it:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f - << EOF
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: config
  namespace: metallb-system
data:
  config: |
    address-pools:
    - name: default
      protocol: layer2
      addresses:
      - 172.17.255.1-172.17.255.250
EOF
{{< /text >}}

Now the external IP addresses for `LoadBalancer` type `Service` resources can be provisioned.

## Certificates

> A default deployment if Istio will only serve HTTP traffic, which can be very limiting for testing. For this example use [CertManager][certmanager] to provide a `ClusterIssuer` which can sign certificates for us for testing HTTPS ingress through our gateways.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A default deployment of Istio will only serve HTTP traffic, which can be very limiting for testing. For this example use [CertManager][certmanager] to provide a `ClusterIssuer` which can sign certificates for us for testing HTTPS ingress through our gateways.
```
